docs: tutorial for bindings with Kafka (#2318)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/kafka/bindings-with-kafka.md

---
title: Kafka bindings
description: Learn how to configure Kafka bindings in your AsyncAPI document.
weight: 300
---

## Introduction

> In a previous tutorial, you learned how to manage schemas with a schema registry. This tutorial teaches you how Kafka bindings function by defining Kafka messages and expanding your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific details.

Reviewer: @CynthiaPeter could you link the previous tutorial here?

Author: Thank you, Vaishnavi. Done.

## Background context

> Bindings are essential for event-driven applications because they provide protocol-specific details, abstracting the complexities of message handling from your application's core logic. They enhance the API's clarity and usability by offering setup options and context for different protocols. Bindings include details like the topics your application reads from or writes to, message formatting, and rules for interacting with multiple data or messages.

Reviewer 2: please also link to https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/concepts/asyncapi-document/adding-bindings

In an AsyncAPI document, bindings can be added to various sections like servers, channels, or messages. They contain protocol-specific details unique to each protocol. Binding definitions let you specify functionalities specific to the protocol, which are not covered by AsyncAPI's core features.

> You can configure several objects using Kafka bindings. However, for the scope of this tutorial, you will focus on four levels of bindings: [server bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object), [operations binding](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#operation-binding-object), [channel bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#channel-binding-object) and [message bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#message-binding-object).

Reviewer 2: please consider modification of this paragraph

here you should just have an intro to kafka binding and point to https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka

then the links that you have, to specific objects, like message or others, they are useful, but super useful they would be if instead of here, they are in respective sections. So for example, as reader I would prefer to have a link to server kafka binding in server-related section, like a sentence below each code snippet

> Using the code snippets from the previous tutorial, where you learned [how to manage Avro schemas using a centralized schema registry that enables you to share schemas across multiple applications](pages/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry), you will add configurations for server, operations, channel, and message bindings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the code snippets from the previous tutorial, where you learned [how to manage Avro schemas using a centralized schema registry that enables you to share schemas across multiple applications](/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry), you will add configurations for server, operations, channel, and message bindings.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: you folks need to be consistent across these tutorials, so they are easy to follow 1-4, but also are useful for someone that just wants to do tut 4

your tutorial is a continuation after tutorial 3, look at it https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/2331/files#diff-db9dfd2002015a20cf7de2d3c2ce8e68a1537fde911f556b307e238fc3e1f09bR18. It says that it is next in the line, but also to make it easier for the reader, it shows the final version of the document that was created in tutorial 2. It shows what document will be modified, and then at the end shows modified version

your tutorial shows only final version after you finish tutorial. Would be great to show initial version of the document that you later extend with bindings

## Add server bindings

> Server bindings provide protocol-specific configuration details for connecting and interacting with a server. For server bindings, we will add three fields: 

Reviewer 2: I think I left that comment some time ago already

we need intros to these snippets

in this one for example you add schema registry details, why?

for example here you explain: server binding for example allows you to specify for a given server, where is related schema registry located. Schema registry is a repository for managing and validating messages' schemas. To learn more about schema registry read https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/guides/message-validation#schema-registry-validation

you know what I mean.

you do not have to go through each property, they are well explained in bindings https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka

but an intro makes sense - so with example they understand the concept behind it

```yaml

> servers:
>   kafkaServer:
>     host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
>     description: Kafka Server
>     protocol: kafka
>   production:
>     bindings:
>       kafka:
>         schemaRegistryUrl: 'http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/'
>         schemaRegistryVendor: 'apicurio'
>         bindingVersion: '0.5.0'

Reviewer 2: please always validate with studio if your snippets are correct

```suggestion
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
    bindings:
      kafka:
        schemaRegistryUrl: 'http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/'
        schemaRegistryVendor: 'apicurio'
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
```

```

> Important: `Binding-version` is the field version of a binding. If omitted, the "latest" version MUST be assumed. The `bindingversion` field is an optional field that is available for all bindings.

## Add operation bindings

Operation bindings object contains information about the operation representation in Kafka (eg. the way to consume messages).

```yaml

> operations:
>   onUserSignedUp:
>     action: receive
>     channel:
>       $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
>     bindings:
>       kafka:
>         groupId:
>           type: string
>           enum: ['myGroupId']
>         clientId:
>           type: string
>           enum: ['myClientId']

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
    bindings:
      kafka:
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
        groupId:
          type: string
          enum: ['myGroupId']
        clientId:
          type: string
          enum: ['myClientId']
```

Author: Is there a particular reason why we have bindingVersion specific to every configuration? Also, does this mean that in the final version, we have 4/5 different bindingVersion or we have just one?

```

## Add channel bindings

Channel bindings provide protocol-specific information for a particular channel. In Kafka, you can specify a given topic's number of partitions or replicas.

```yaml
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
    bindings:

>       kafka:
>         topic: 'UserSignedUp'
>         partitions: 10
>         replicas: 2
>         topicConfiguration:
>           cleanup.policy: ["delete", "compact"]
>           retention.ms: 604800000
>           retention.bytes: 1000000000
>           delete.retention.ms: 86400000
>           max.message.bytes: 1048588

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      kafka:
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
        topic: 'UserSignedUp'
        partitions: 10
        replicas: 2
        topicConfiguration:
          cleanup.policy: ["delete", "compact"]
          retention.ms: 604800000
          retention.bytes: 1000000000
          delete.retention.ms: 86400000
          max.message.bytes: 1048588
```

```

## Add message bindings

Message bindings provide protocol-specific information for a specific message. Like the Kafka topic, it's associated with a message key (if any) and Kafka-specific properties. 

```yaml
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      bindings:

>         kafka:
>             key:
>               type: string
>               enum: ['myKey']
>             schemaIdLocation: 'payload'
>             schemaIdPayloadEncoding: 'apicurio-new'
>             schemaLookupStrategy: 'TopicIdStrategy'
>             bindingVersion: '0.5.0'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        kafka:
            key:
              type: string
              enum: ['myKey']
            schemaIdLocation: 'payload'
            schemaIdPayloadEncoding: 'apicurio-new'
            schemaLookupStrategy: 'TopicIdStrategy'
            bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
```

      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp
```

Congratulations, you've completed the tutorial! Putting these blocks together gives you an AsyncAPI document all ready to go.

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: please adjust it to reflect final version containing all that was added above + things from previous example

---
title: Kafka bindings
description: Learn how to configure Kafka bindings in your AsyncAPI document.
weight: 300
---

## Introduction

> In a [previous tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry), you learned how to manage schemas with a schema registry. This tutorial teaches you how Kafka bindings function by defining Kafka messages and expanding your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[You learned how to manage schemas with a schema registry in the previous tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry). This tutorial teaches you how Kafka bindings function by defining Kafka messages and expanding your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific details.
```

> In a [previous tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry.md), you learned how to manage schemas with a schema registry. This tutorial teaches you how Kafka bindings function by defining Kafka messages and expanding your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a [previous tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry), you learned how to manage schemas with a schema registry. This tutorial teaches you how Kafka bindings function by defining Kafka messages and expanding your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific details.
```

## Background context

> Bindings are essential for event-driven applications because they provide protocol-specific details, abstracting the complexities of message handling from your application's core logic. They enhance the API's clarity and usability by offering setup options and context for different protocols. [Bindings](docs/concepts/asyncapi-document/adding-bindings) include details like the topics your application reads from or writes to, message formatting, and rules for interacting with multiple data or messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Bindings are essential for event-driven applications because they provide protocol-specific details, abstracting the complexities of message handling from your application's core logic. They enhance the API's clarity and usability by offering setup options and context for different protocols. Bindings include the topics your application reads from or writes to, message formatting, and rules for interacting with multiple data or messages.
```

In an AsyncAPI document, bindings can be added to various sections like servers, channels, or messages. They contain protocol-specific details unique to each protocol. Binding definitions let you specify functionalities specific to the protocol, which are not covered by AsyncAPI's core features.

> You can configure several objects using [Kafka bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#readme). However, for the scope of this tutorial, you will focus on four levels of bindings: server bindings, operations binding, channel bindings and message bindings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure several objects using [Kafka bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#readme). However, for the scope of this tutorial, you will focus on four levels of bindings: server bindings, operations binding, channel bindings, and message bindings.
```

Using the code snippets from the previous tutorial, where you learned [how to manage Avro schemas using a centralized schema registry that enables you to share schemas across multiple applications](/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry), you will add configurations for server, operations, channel, and message bindings.

> Below, you can find the updated Schema reference file that we'll be using for this tutorial.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below, you can find the updated schema reference file you'll use for this tutorial.
```

```yaml
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp
```

## Add server bindings

Server bindings provide protocol-specific configuration details for connecting and interacting with a server. 

> Server bindings allows you to specify a `schemaRegistryUrl` which provides an API Url for a given server where a schema registry was used. A Schema registry is a repository for managing and validating messages' schemas. To learn more about schema registry read [this guide on message validation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/guides/message-validation#schema-registry-validation).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Server bindings allow you to specify a `schemaRegistryUrl`, which provides an API URL for a given server where a schema registry was used. A Schema registry is a repository for managing and validating messages' schemas. To learn more about schema registry, read the [message validation guide for schema registry](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/guides/message-validation#schema-registry-validation).
```

> Server bindings allow you to specify a `schemaRegistryUrl`, which provides an API URL for a given server where a schema registry was used. A Schema registry is a repository for managing and validating messages' schemas. To learn more about schema registry, read the [message validation guide for schema registry](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/guides/message-validation#schema-registry-validation).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Server bindings allow you to specify a `schemaRegistryUrl`, which provides an API URL for a given server where a schema registry was used. A schema registry is a repository for managing and validating messages' schemas. To learn more about schema registry, read the [message validation guide for schema registry](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/guides/message-validation#schema-registry-validation).
```

> `schemaRegistryVendor` is used optionally to refer to vendors or platforms that provide the schema registry service, in this case Apicurio Registry. Learn more about other fields you can configure under [server bindings.](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`schemaRegistryVendor` is used optionally to refer to vendors or platforms that provide the schema registry service, in this case, Apicurio Registry. Learn about other fields you can configure under [server bindings.](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object).
```

> `schemaRegistryVendor` is used optionally to refer to vendors or platforms that provide the schema registry service, in this case, Apicurio Registry. Learn about other fields you can configure under [server bindings.](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`schemaRegistryVendor` is used optionally to refer to vendors or platforms that provide the schema registry service, in this case, Apicurio Registry. Learn about other fields you can configure under [server bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object).
```

  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp
```

## Add server bindings

Server bindings provide protocol-specific configuration details for connecting and interacting with a server. 

Server bindings allows you to specify a `schemaRegistryUrl` which provides an API Url for a given server where a schema registry was used. A Schema registry is a repository for managing and validating messages' schemas. To learn more about schema registry read [this guide on message validation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/guides/message-validation#schema-registry-validation).

> `schemaRegistryVendor` is used optionally to refer to vendors or platforms that provide the schema registry service, in this case "Apicurio".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`schemaRegistryVendor` is used optionally to refer to vendors or platforms that provide the schema registry service, in this case Apicurio Registry.
```

```yaml
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
    bindings:
      kafka:
        schemaRegistryUrl: 'http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/'
        schemaRegistryVendor: 'apicurio'

>         bindingVersion: '0.4.0'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        bindingVersion: '0.5.0'
```

Author: Hello @dalelane, I had a chat with @derberg about bindingVersion and he explained that we use the compatible version to studio in our docs because we have a bug in validation and studio complains about 0.5.0. 

Is this ok?

Reviewer 2: @CynthiaPeter not anymore, sorry, wrote you in slack, `0.5.0` is definitely fine now

Author: I understand. Thank you.

```

> [Learn more about server specific bindings.](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object).

Reviewer 2: please always look at your final document in a preview and read it

it is important to be consistent, 

here you put reference to more info about bindings after a code snippet, as a full text link - then in other sections you do it completely different, and before the code snippet

> > Important: `BindingVersion` is the field version of a binding. It specifies the version of the binding specification that is used to describe how an API interacts with Kafka. The `bindingVersion` field is an optional field that is available for all bindings and ensures that as the specifications for different messaging systems evolve, APIs based on these specifications can remain consistent, compatible, and maintainable over time.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Important: `bindingVersion` is the field version of a binding. It specifies the version of the binding specification that is used to describe how an API interacts with Kafka. The `bindingVersion` field is an optional field that is available for all bindings and ensures that as the specifications for different messaging systems evolve, APIs based on these specifications can remain consistent, compatible, and maintainable over time.  
```

if we refer to key name, we always have to keep original capitalization to be technically accura

Reviewer 2: sorry but I have no idea what `The bindingVersion field is an optional field that is available for all bindings and ensures that as the specifications for different messaging systems evolve, APIs based on these specifications can remain consistent, compatible, and maintainable over time.` means. Let's not overcomplicate and add sugar in tech docs.

 ```suggestion
> Important: Always utilize the `bindingVersion` field in your production environment. This field allows you to specify the exact version of the binding you're using. Failure to include this field may result in unintended usage of the latest version, potentially causing issues due to possible future breaking changes.
```

Author: @derberg The intention was not to add sugar. I understood that the binding version was important for each bindings because of compatibility. And knowing the bindingVersion for each bindings ensures consistency as well. 

However, I have removed the sentence.

## Add operation bindings

Operation bindings object contains information about the operation representation in Kafka (eg. the way to consume messages).

The operation binding object provides a structured way to describe how a particular operation (publish, subscribe) should behave on a Kafka topic. The `groupid`, for example, is the Id of the consumer group, while the `cliendID` is the Id of the consumer within a consumer group.	

These configurations are vital for distributed message consumption and load balancing among consumers. Learn more about other fields you can configure under [operations binding](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#operation-binding-object).

```yaml
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
    bindings:
      kafka:

>         bindingVersion: '0.4.0'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        bindingVersion: '0.5.0'
```

        groupId:
          type: string
          enum: ['myGroupId']
        clientId:
          type: string
          enum: ['myClientId']
```

## Add channel bindings

Channel bindings provide protocol-specific information for a particular channel.

> These configurations may include information about how to connect with the Kafka topic, plus any specific settings or behaviors to be used. The Channel Binding Object is part of AsyncAPI's wider bindings architecture, which specifies how the API interacts with the messaging system — in this case, Kafka.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These configurations may include information how the Kafka topic has been configured. The Channel Binding Object is part of AsyncAPI's wider bindings architecture, which specifies how the API interacts with the messaging system — in this case, Kafka.
```

I bumped a little on saying the Kafka channel bindings are about how to connect, as they are more intended to describe the topic config. I do accept that you could describe deciding the number of consumers to run in a group as being information about how to connect, but that feels like a bit of a stretch IMO.

In Kafka, you can specify a given topic's number of partitions or replicas therefore, enabling parallel processing of data or consumers. Learn more about other fields that you can configure under [channel bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#channel-binding-object).

```yaml
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
    bindings:
      kafka:
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
        partitions: 10
        replicas: 2
        topicConfiguration:
          cleanup.policy: ["delete", "compact"]
          retention.ms: 604800000
          retention.bytes: 1000000000
          delete.retention.ms: 86400000
          max.message.bytes: 1048588
```

<Remember>
If you need to follow specific naming conventions for example, Kafka topic name is different from channel name.
</Remember>

## Add message bindings

> Message bindings provide protocol-specific information for a specific message. Like the Kafka topic, it's associated with a message key (if any) and Kafka-specific properties. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Message bindings provide protocol-specific information for a specific message. For Kafka topics, this can include how message keys are used, and details about how serialized message data has been encoded. 
```

For example, the `schemaIdLocation` field, if specified is used to indicate where the schema identifier (ID) for the message payload's schema is located. It is useful for message serialization and deserialization, enabling consumers to understand how to interpret the message payload.

Learn more about other fields that you can configure under [message bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#message-binding-object)

```yaml
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      bindings:
        kafka:
            key:
              type: string
              enum: ['myKey']
            schemaIdLocation: 'payload'
            schemaIdPayloadEncoding: 'apicurio-new'
            schemaLookupStrategy: 'TopicIdStrategy'

>             bindingVersion: '0.4.0'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
            bindingVersion: '0.5.0'
```

      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp
```

Congratulations, you've completed the tutorial! Putting these blocks together gives you an AsyncAPI document all ready to go.

```yaml
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API

>   version: 1.0.0
>   description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
> servers:
>   kafkaServer:
>     host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
>     description: Kafka Server
>     protocol: kafka
>     bindings:
>       kafka:
>         schemaRegistryUrl: 'http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/'
>         schemaRegistryVendor: 'apicurio'
>         bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
> operations:
>   onUserSignedUp:
>     action: receive
>     channel:
>       $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
>     bindings:
>       kafka:
>         bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
>         groupId:
>           type: string
>           enum: ['myGroupId']
>         clientId:
>           type: string
>           enum: ['myClientId']
> channels:
>   userSignedUp:
>     description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
>     address: user_signedup
>     messages:
>       userSignedUp:
>         $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
>     bindings:
>       kafka:
>         bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
>         partitions: 10
>         replicas: 2
>         topicConfiguration:
>           cleanup.policy: ["delete", "compact"]
>           retention.ms: 604800000
>           retention.bytes: 1000000000
>           delete.retention.ms: 86400000
>           max.message.bytes: 1048588
> components:
>   messages:
>     userSignedUp:
>       bindings:
>         kafka:
>           bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
>             key:
>               type: string
>               enum: ['myKey']
>             schemaIdLocation: 'payload'
>             schemaIdPayloadEncoding: 'apicurio-new'
>             schemaLookupStrategy: 'TopicIdStrategy'
>       payload:
>         schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
>         schema:
>           $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp          

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
    bindings:
      kafka:
        schemaRegistryUrl: 'http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/'
        schemaRegistryVendor: 'apicurio'
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
    bindings:
      kafka:
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
        groupId:
          type: string
          enum: ['myGroupId']
        clientId:
          type: string
          enum: ['myClientId']
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
    bindings:
      kafka:
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
        partitions: 10
        replicas: 2
        topicConfiguration:
          cleanup.policy: ["delete", "compact"]
          retention.ms: 604800000
          retention.bytes: 1000000000
          delete.retention.ms: 86400000
          max.message.bytes: 1048588
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      bindings:
        kafka:
          bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
          key:
            type: string
            enum: ['myKey']
          schemaIdLocation: 'payload'
          schemaIdPayloadEncoding: 'apicurio-new'
          schemaLookupStrategy: 'TopicIdStrategy'
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp          
```

Reviewer 2: as I wrote in previous comments, you always need o make sure example you share and promote is actually valid

---
title: Adding Kafka information using bindings.
description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how bindings with Kafka work and different ways to utilize bindings in your AsyncAPI applications.
weight: 150
---

## Introduction

> In this tutorial, you will learn how bindings with Kafka works. You will learn how to extend your AsyncAPI document with Protocol-specific information, such as how to specify Kafka topic-specific configurations or how to define Kafka message key content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how bindings with Kafka works. You will learn how to extend your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific information, such as specifying configurations unique to Kafka topics or defining Kafka message key content.
```
The word specific/specify seems repetitive here.

## Background Context
Bindings are relevant when integrating Kafka with other programs or services. A binding is a specific agreement or configuration that governs how an application connects to and interacts with Kafka. It can include information such as:

- Which topics should an application read from or write to?
- How should messages be formatted?

> - What are the rules for interacting with various data or messages?

Reviewer 3: - Let's consider turning this bullet point list into sentence format and include it in the previous paragraph from line 12.
- CONFIRM: Is this info `required` or optional? If optional, prob not needed.
**- Determine if these questions should be turned into statements.**

Bindings configure ecosystems to accommodate Kafka-specific functionalities not supported by AsyncAPI's core features. This necessity for bindings arises to bridge these specific requirements of Kafka with AsyncAPI. Hence the need for bindings. 

> You can configure several objects using Kafka bindings. However, for the scope of this tutorial, we are focusing on two levels of bindings:
> 
> - Server Bindings
> - Channel Bindings

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure several objects using Kafka bindings. However, for the scope of this tutorial, we are focusing on two levels of bindings: Server Bindings and Channel Bindings.
```

Add links to the object's documentation :)

The diagram below shows how bindings with Kafka work. 

> Now, let's see how to use bindings with Kafka.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove, not needed in this section :)

---
title: Adding Kafka information using bindings.
description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how how to add specific bindings to AsyncAPI document.
---

## Introduction

> In a previous tutorial, you learnt how to manage schemas with schema registry. In this tutorial, you will learn how bindings with Kafka works. You will learn how to define Kafka message key content and extend your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific information.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In a previous tutorial, you learnt how to manage schemas with schema registry. In this tutorial, you will learn how bindings with Kafka works by defining Kafka message key content and extending your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific information.
```

## Background Context

Bindings enhances AsyncAPI documentation by providing protocol-specific information. They append to different document sections, such as servers, channels, or messages, and they include standard information that is unique to a particular protocol. 

Bindings improve the understanding and usability of the API by offering more setup options and context for various protocols. It includes information such as topics an application reads from or writes to, how the messages are formatted, and the rules for interacting with various data or messages. 

> Bindings configure ecosystems to accommodate specific functionalities not supported by AsyncAPI's core features.

Reviewer 5: bindings configure nothing in the kafka ecosystems but allow documenting how the stack is configured
```suggestion
Bindings definitions allow you to specify the protocol specific functionalities not supported by AsyncAPI's core features.
```

You can configure several objects using Kafka bindings. However, for the scope of this tutorial, we are focusing on two levels of bindings: [server bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object) and [channel bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#channel-binding-object). 

> 

Reviewer 5: where to not cover all the bindings levels ? Kafka key bindings are more essential than server bindings for example; if you choose to keep only two levels; do a focus on channel + message key bindings

Author: Thanks for this feedback. I will discuss this with Alejandra and prioritize properly.

Reviewer 3: Cool, so Cynthia is just gonna do 3 levels then: server, channel, and messages.

> The diagram below shows how bindings with Kafka work. 

Reviewer 5: i don't see any diagram :)

Author: My bad. I had several versions, so I wanted to get your feedback on Slack.

Reviewer 3: **Diagram design style guide:** 
- use this blue #47BCEE for the highlighted component(s) in your diagram
- default mermaid diagram coloring for remaining nodes (rectangles)

In an AsyncAPI document, bindings can be appended to different document sections, such as servers, channels, or messages. They include standard information that is unique to a particular protocol. Bindings definitions allow you to specify the protocol-specific functionalities not supported by AsyncAPI's core features.

You can configure several objects using Kafka bindings. However, for the scope of this tutorial, we are focusing on three levels of bindings: [server bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object), [channel bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#channel-binding-object) and [message bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#message-binding-object).

The diagram below shows how bindings with Kafka work. 

> ```mermaid

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need such diagram that explains kafka in asyncapi

we already have a good doc and diagram in https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/concepts/asyncapi-document/adding-bindings

and your intro already links to kafka specific bindings

Author: Ok. This means that we don't need an image here, right?

Reviewer 2: diagrams are always nice, but only if they bring some value in given context. As I wrote in previous comment, there is already a nice binding overview diagram, so maybe link there. Just this diagram do not help much - I basically do not understand it, there is no text that describes it - so for now I advocate to remove it

Author: Ok. Thank you.

---
title: Kafka-specific Bindings
description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how how to add specific Kafka information to an AsyncAPI document using bindings.
---

## Introduction

In a previous tutorial, you learnt how to manage schemas with schema registry. In this tutorial, you will learn how bindings with Kafka works by defining Kafka message key content and extending your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific information.

## Background Context

> 

Reviewer 3: For the background context...
- Define the general concept of `bindings`
- Tell me it's relationship to the AsyncAPI document
- Define Kafka `bindings`

> Bindings enhances AsyncAPI documentation by providing protocol-specific information. They append to different document sections, such as servers, channels, or messages, and they include standard information that is unique to a particular protocol. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Bindings provide protocol-specific information for your Event-Driven application. Protocols have specific ways of handling messages, and bindings abstract these details away from your application's core logic. Bindings improve the understanding and usability of the API by offering more setup options and context for various protocols. It includes information such as topics an application reads from or writes to, how the messages are formatted, and the rules for interacting with various data or messages. 

In an AsyncAPI document, bindings can be appended to different document sections, such as servers, channels, or messages. They include standard information that is unique to a particular protocol. Bindings definitions allow you to specify the protocol-specific functionalities not supported by AsyncAPI's core features.
```

> Bindings improve the understanding and usability of the API by offering more setup options and context for various protocols. It includes information such as topics an application reads from or writes to, how the messages are formatted, and the rules for interacting with various data or messages. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> Bindings definitions allow you to specify the protocol specific functionalities not supported by AsyncAPI's core features.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---

> title: Kafka-specific Bindings

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Kafka specific bindings
```

> title: Kafka specific bindings

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Kafka bindings
```

description: Learn how to configure Kafka bindings in your AsyncAPI document.
---

> 

Reviewer 3: @CynthiaPeter The only thing missing is the `page weight` metadata. Please add one, remembering that the tutorial order places THIS as the fourth and final Kafka tutorial. 😸

Author: Done. Thanks

> description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how how to add specific Kafka information to an AsyncAPI document using bindings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to configure Kafka bindings in your AsyncAPI document.
```

## Introduction

> In a previous tutorial, you learnt how to manage schemas with schema registry. In this tutorial, you will learn how bindings with Kafka work by defining Kafka message key content and extending your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In a previous tutorial, you learned how to manage schemas with a schema registry. This tutorial teaches you how Kafka bindings function by defining Kafka messages and expanding your AsyncAPI document with protocol-specific details.
```

> ## Background Context

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Background context
```

> Bindings are crucial to an Event-driven application as they provide protocol-specific information that abstracts the details of how protocols handle messages from the core logic of your application. Bindings improve the understanding and usability of the API by offering more setup options and context for various protocols. It includes information such as topics an application reads from or writes to, how the messages are formatted, and the rules for interacting with multiple data or messages. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Bindings are essential for event-driven applications because they provide protocol-specific details, abstracting the complexities of message handling from your application's core logic. They enhance the API's clarity and usability by offering setup options and context for different protocols. Bindings include details like the topics your application reads from or writes to, message formatting, and rules for interacting with multiple data or messages.
```

> In an AsyncAPI document, bindings can be appended to different document sections, such as servers, channels, or messages. They include standard information that is unique to a particular protocol. Bindings definitions allow you to specify the protocol-specific functionalities not supported by AsyncAPI's core features.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In an AsyncAPI document, bindings can be added to various sections like servers, channels, or messages. They contain protocol-specific details unique to each protocol. Binding definitions let you specify functionalities specific to the protocol, which are not covered by AsyncAPI's core features.
```

> You can configure several objects using Kafka bindings. However, for the scope of this tutorial, we are focusing on three levels of bindings: [server bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object), [channel bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#channel-binding-object) and [message bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#message-binding-object).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure several objects using Kafka bindings. However, for the scope of this tutorial, you will focus on three levels of bindings: [server bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object), [channel bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#channel-binding-object) and [message bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#message-binding-object).
```

> Using the code snippets from the previous tutorial, where you learned [how to manage Avro schemas using a centralized schema registry that enables you to share schemas across multiple applications](pages/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry.md), you will add configurations for server, channel, and message bindings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the code snippets from the previous tutorial, where you learned [how to manage Avro schemas using a centralized schema registry that enables you to share schemas across multiple applications](pages/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry), you will add configurations for server, channel, and message bindings.
```

## Add server bindings

> Server bindings provide protocol-specific configuration details for connecting and interacting with a server. For server bindings, we will add three fields to configure the server bindings. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Server bindings provide protocol-specific configuration details for connecting and interacting with a server. For server bindings, we will add three fields: 
```

```
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
  production:
    bindings:
      kafka:
        schemaRegistryUrl: '$ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp'
        schemaRegistryVendor: 'apicurio'
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
```

## Add channel bindings

> Channel bindings provide protocol-specific information for a particular channel. For example, in Kafka, you can specify number of partitions or replicas for a given topic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Channel bindings provide protocol-specific information for a particular channel. In Kafka, you can specify a given topic's number of partitions or replicas.
```

```
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
    bindings:
      kafka:
        topic: 'UserSignedUp'
        partitions: 10
        replicas: 2
        topicConfiguration:
          cleanup.policy: ["delete", "compact"]
          retention.ms: 604800000
          retention.bytes: 1000000000
          delete.retention.ms: 86400000
          max.message.bytes: 1048588
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
```

## Add message bindings

> Message bindings provide protocol-specific information for a specific message. Like the Kafka topic it's associated with, message key (if any), and Kafka-specific properties. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Message bindings provide protocol-specific information for a specific message. Like the Kafka topic, it's associated with a message key (if any) and Kafka-specific properties. 
```

```
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      bindings:
        kafka:
            key:
              type: string
              enum: ['myKey']
            schemaIdLocation: 'payload'
            schemaIdPayloadEncoding: '4'
            bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp
```

## Summary

> In this tutorial, you learned how to configure server and channel bindings. You also learned that bindings are essential in integrating Kafka with different systems, platforms, or protocols, especially in API specifications like AsyncAPI. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to configure server and channel bindings. You also learned that bindings are essential when integrating Kafka with different systems, platforms, or protocols — especially in API specifications like AsyncAPI. 
```

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```

You can configure several objects using Kafka bindings. However, for the scope of this tutorial, you will focus on three levels of bindings: [server bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object), [channel bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#channel-binding-object) and [message bindings](https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#message-binding-object).

Using the code snippets from the previous tutorial, where you learned [how to manage Avro schemas using a centralized schema registry that enables you to share schemas across multiple applications](pages/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry), you will add configurations for server, channel, and message bindings.

## Add server bindings

Server bindings provide protocol-specific configuration details for connecting and interacting with a server. For server bindings, we will add three fields: 

```
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
  production:
    bindings:
      kafka:

>         schemaRegistryUrl: '$ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp'

Reviewer 5: the url must be the base path of the registry api 
the `$ref` must referencing a component or an external file, so this is not appropriate here
```suggestion
        schemaRegistryUrl: 'http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/'
```

        schemaRegistryVendor: 'apicurio'
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
```

## Add channel bindings

Channel bindings provide protocol-specific information for a particular channel. In Kafka, you can specify a given topic's number of partitions or replicas.

```
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
    bindings:
      kafka:

>         topic: 'UserSignedUp'

Reviewer 5: we needs to maybe set a more different name to illustrate this documentation 

```
Kafka topic name if different from channel name.
```

Author: @M3lkior , I read that `topic` is to Kafka what `channel` is to AsyncAPI. If that is the case, how is Kafka topic name different from channel name?

and how is that different from `channel.address`?

Reviewer 6: `topic` was introduced in AsyncAPI v2 as channel was much more a "logical view", and topic represents a living object in Kafka broker. Moreover, a Kafka topic has naming conventions that were different from a channel key in AsyncAPI v2.

In AsyncAPI v3, we now have `channel.address` and I think this drops the need for `topic` as we'll probably have `channel.address === kafka.topic` most of the time - as the representation of the technical object living in a Kafka broker. That said, we absolutely need to check the naming conventions of both properties to be sure they are a perfect match.

Generally speaking - getting beyond Kafka here - I'm not sure `channel.address` will be generic and future-proof enough to handle all the protocol naming specificities (think of `/`, `-`, `_`, `.` chars that may or may not accepted depending on protocol...). I think it's nice to let the binding override the `channel.address` property if needed.

Coming back to the initial question, I like @M3lkior suggestion. I would put something like this in the doc:

```
Kafka topic name if different from channel name - if you need to follow specific naming conventions for exampee.
```

Reviewer 2: @CynthiaPeter from the slack discussion I figure, the best is just to remove `topic` from this tutorial.

and I guess folks we pinged (kafka binding maintainers), if there are doubts and clarifications needed, they will take it from here and followup in `bindings` repo
